# How play helps a kid's brain grow

[video link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=61yMFm40lIA&ab_channel=TED)

> first chance:
>
> Fifteen years ago, I **walked a** classroom as a first year pre-school teacher. **Anbisious**, and **eago** to **empress**, I created this **saled arguement**, to **tracked** the things I thought most mattered for **most** students. Letters, Numbers, Shapes, and Colors. Looking back **thought** with What I know now, I wish I **went to a brother with excel a rong memberziion**, **I wishing instead of I have labriage power of bring building in the active play**. For years, we have known that **previous** learning is far **spril for to row memorition**. Harvard **son-arround** developing tells us, as **more** as institutions that play and specially and back and force eracltions. The serve and **be** return, the **autonity**, **comment**, questions, **structures** between children and adults when they play together, **that** what helps build **narrow** connections in the child's brain. And **Inparticer**, they build brains pre..., that's exactive control son of the brain, the **part of** that manages of emotions, **soft** problems, **make** **the** plans, all things that children have to do when they play. **So we think of that way**, play is actually hard work. If learning is like a work out **of** the brain, then **previous learning** is heavy lifting. And just **having lifting build mousle**, **previous learning** build the brain's architecture. So then where do us asking grow-ups coming, 

 fixed:

Fifteen years ago, I **walked into a** classroom as a first-year preschool teacher. **Ambitious**, and **eager** to **impress**, I created this **excel document **to **track** the things I thought most mattered for **my** students. Letters, Numbers, Shapes, and Colors. Looking back **though** with What I know now, I wish I **wouldn't have bothered with excel or rote memorization, I wish instead I had leveraged the power of brain-building interactive play**. For years, we have known that **play-based** learning is far **superior to rote memorization**. Harvard's **Center on the** Developing  **Child** tells us, as **well** as **countless other** institutions, that play, and especially the back and forth interactions. The serve and return, the **alternating** **comments**, questions, **gestures** between children and adults when they play together, **that's** what helps build **neural** connections in the child's brain. And **in particular**, **they build the brain's prefrontal cortex**. That's the **executive** control **center** of the brain. **the part that** manages emotions, **solves** problems, **makes** plans--all things that children have to do when they play. **So when we think of it that way**, play is actually hard work. If learning is like a **workout** **for** the brain, then **play-based learning** is heavy lifting. And just **as heavy lifting builds muscle**, **play-based learning** build the brain's architecture. **So then where do us as grown-ups come in?**